New Entry: C++ Math Functions: `isfinite()` (#972)
Codecademy/docs: content/cpp/concepts/math-functions/terms/isfinite/isfinite.md

---
Title: 'isfinite()'
Description: 'Returns whether the argument is a finite value.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:

>   - 'Functions'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'Arithmetic'
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Numbers'
```

CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> Returns whether the argument is a finite value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`isfinite()`** function returns boolean telling whether the argument has a finite value.
```

## Syntax

```cpp
isfinite(x)
```

> 

Reviewer: Under this snippet, can we write 1-3 sentences about the domain and range of `x`; what counts as a finite value (and returns `true`)? And what _doesn't_ count as a finite value (and returns `false`)?

## Example

> Use `isfinite()` to check whether `5` is finite:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example uses the `isfinite()` function to check whether `5` is finite:
```

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>

int main() {
  int result;

  result = std::isfinite(5.0);

  if(result == 0){
    std::cout << "Not finite" << "\n";
  }
  else{
    std::cout << "Is finite" << "\n";
  }
  // Output: Is finite
}
```

## Codebyte Example

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following example is runnable and features a case where running the `isfinite()` functions returns `false` and the value is not finite:

```

Reviewer: I would actually prefer a mix of cases that return both `true` and `false`. Something like this:

```
std::isfinite(4.0);
std::isfinite(1.0/0.0);
std::isfinite(10);
std::isfinite(NAN); // Or std::isfinite(Inf);
```

---
Title: 'isfinite()'
Description: 'Returns whether the argument is a finite value.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'

> Tags: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tags:
```

  - 'Functions'

> CatalogContent: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CatalogContent:
```

  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

Returns whether the argument is a finite value.

## Syntax

```cpp
isfinite(x)
```

## Example

Use `isfinite()` to check whether `5` is finite:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>

int main() {
  int result;

  result = std::isfinite(5.0);

>   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 
```

  if(result == 0){
    std::cout << "Not finite" << "\n";
  }
  else{
    std::cout << "Is finite" << "\n";
  }
  // Output: Is finite
}
```

## Codebyte Example

```codebyte/cpp

#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>

int main() {
  int result;

  result = std::isfinite(1.0/0.0);

>   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 
```

---
Title: 'isfinite()'

> Description: 'Returns whether the argument is a finite value.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns a boolean whether the argument is a finite value.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Arithmetic'
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Numbers'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`isfinite()`** function returns boolean telling whether the argument has a finite value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`isfinite()`** function returns a boolean telling whether the argument has a finite value.
```

## Syntax

```cpp
isfinite(x)
```

## Example

> The following example uses the `isfinite()` function to check whether `5` is finite:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example uses the `isfinite()` function to check whether `5.0` is finite:
```

#include <cmath>

int main() {
  int x = 5;
  int result;

  result = std::isfinite(x);
  
  if(result == 0){
    std::cout << "Not finite" << "\n";
  }
  else{
    std::cout << "Is finite" << "\n";
  }
  // Output: Is finite
}
```

## Codebyte Example

```codebyte/cpp

#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>

> int main() {

Reviewer 2: The two examples are largely the same. It would be good to differentiate one by using isfinite in a different way. Perhaps by testing the result of an operation that could possibly produce a result that isn't finite.

> The following example is runnable and features a case where running the `isfinite()` functions returns `false` and the value is not finite:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example is runnable and features a case where running the `isfinite()` function returns `false` and the value is not finite:
```

  int x = 2;
  int result;

  result = std::isfinite(x);
  
  if(result == 0){
    std::cout << "Not finite" << "\n";
  }
  else{
    std::cout << "Is finite" << "\n";
  }

> } 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
}
```

Reviewer 2: eliminate trailing space.

---
Title: 'isfinite()'
Description: 'Returns a value telling whether the argument is a finite value.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Arithmetic'
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Numbers'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`isfinite()`** function returns a value telling whether the argument has a finite value.

## Syntax

```pseudo
isfinite(x)
```

> The `x` parameter is finite if it a floating-point number that is neither infinite or `NaN` (e.g., division by zero, square root of a negative value).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `x` parameter is finite if it is a floating-point number that is neither infinite nor `NaN` (e.g., division by zero, square root of a negative value).
```

> If `x` is finite, the `isfinite()` function will return a non-zero value for `true`. Otherwise, it will return zero for `false`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If `x` is finite, the `isfinite()` function will return `true` for a non-zero value. Otherwise, it will return `false` for zero.
```

Reviewer: @yangc95 I'm pretty sure that `isfinite()` returns 0 or a non-0 value. I tested with this code:

```cpp
#include<iostream>  
#include<math.h>
#include <cfenv>
using namespace std;  
int main()  
{ 
  int result_1, result_2;
  result_1 = std::isfinite(1.0/1.0);

  result_2 = std::isfinite(1.0/0.0);
  std::cout << "Result 1: " << result_1 << endl;
  std::cout << "Result 2: " << result_2 << endl;
} 
```

And got this result:

```shell
Result 1: 1
Result 2: 0
```

## Example

The following example uses the `isfinite()` function to check whether `5.0` is finite:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>

int main() {
  int result;

  result = std::isfinite(5.0);

  if(result == 0){
    std::cout << "Not finite" << "\n";
  }
  else{
    std::cout << "Is finite" << "\n";
  }
  // Output: Is finite
}
```

## Codebyte Example

> The following example is runnable and features a case where running the `isfinite()` function returns `false` and the value is not finite:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example features a case where running the `isfinite()` function returns `false` since the value is not finite:
```
